---
layout: post
title:  "Minecraft Client Mod Loaders Setup"
date:   2016-10-25 17:50:00 -0700
categories: minecraft
---
Prerequisites
=============

There are countless Minecraft mods out there on the web. Most of them are interesting in different ways. In this guide, we categorize them into two groups - client-side mods and dual-side mods. Client-side mods do not involve extra data exchange with the server. A good example of this is minimap. Minimap mods rely only on the data that are already generated by the vanilla version of Minecraft server. On the other hand, mods that add extra items or extra moves need the server to understand their new stuff as well. These are therefore called dual-side mods (by me).

In our (people playing on my server) system, client-side mods will use [liteloader API][liteloader] and dual-side mods will use the well-known [Forge API][forge]. The compatibility between the two APIs can be easily handled because liteloader supports extending from Forge. Therefore, we are ok by just installing them in the correct order.

The following guide assumes you are running Minecraft 1.10.2 on Windows 10.

Installing the APIs/Loaders
===========================

#### Forge
We will first install Forge to our system. Go to [this link][forge] and download the recommended "installer-win" for 1.10.2. If you cannot find it, click [this link][forge-1.10.2-12.18.2.2114-installer-win.exe] to download it directly.

As the download finishes, double click the `.exe` file to install. Make sure you choose "Install client" and don't change the installation path. Remember this path; copy it to clipboard or take a photo of it.

#### Liteloader
Similar to the Forge section, download liteloader's installer from its [official website][liteloader]. The file for 1.10.2 is a little hard to find; feel free to download it from this [direct link][liteloader-installer-1.10.2-00-SNAPSHOT.exe] to the file.

Launch the installer and select "Install LiteLoader (recommended)". Click the drop-down list to the right of "Extended from:" and choose the one with "forge1.10.2" in its name. Don't change the installation path. You can also double-check if this path matches the path you remember in the Forge section. Lastly, click OK to install.

#### Initialization of the Loaders
Run Minecraft with the profile named something like "liteloader xxx with Forge yyy". This will create `mods/` folder properly under the loaders installation path.

#### Downloading the Mods
We are all set to load mods. Downloadng the following mods for the correct Minecraft version (currently 1.10.2).

For Forge:

- [Cooking for Blockheads][CookingForBlockheads_1.10.2-4.2.16.jar]
- [Lots of Food][Lots of Food-1.12.0.jar]

For liteloader:

- [voxelMap][mod_voxelMap_1.6.15_for_1.10.2.litemod]

#### Installing the Mods
Still remember the installation path? Go to that folder. Be careful that `AppData/` directory is likely to be hidden. You need to change your File Explorer settings to reveal it. When you are there, you will see a `mods/` folder. Copy the `.jar` mods you just downloaded to it. Go into `mods/` you will see a directory named by the version number of Minecraft (1.10.2 in this case). Copy all `.litemod` mods to that directory.

Done!
=====
You are all set! Log into the server and enjoy.

[liteloader]: http://www.liteloader.com
[forge]: https://files.minecraftforge.net
[forge-1.10.2-12.18.2.2114-installer-win.exe]: http://files.minecraftforge.net/maven/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.10.2-12.18.2.2114/forge-1.10.2-12.18.2.2114-installer-win.exe
[liteloader-installer-1.10.2-00-SNAPSHOT.exe]: http://jenkins.liteloader.com/job/LiteLoaderInstaller%201.10.2/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/build/libs/liteloader-installer-1.10.2-00-SNAPSHOT.exe
[CookingForBlockheads_1.10.2-4.2.16.jar]: https://addons-origin.cursecdn.com/files/2334/660/CookingForBlockheads_1.10.2-4.2.16.jar
[Lots of Food-1.12.0.jar]: https://addons-origin.cursecdn.com/files/2324/93/Lots%20of%20Food-1.12.0.jar
[mod_voxelMap_1.6.15_for_1.10.2.litemod]: https://addons-origin.cursecdn.com/files/2311/763/mod_voxelMap_1.6.15_for_1.10.2.litemod